..  Copyright (C)  Mark Guzdial, Barbara Ericson, Briana Morrison
    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
    under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
    any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
    Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and Contributor List,
    no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
    is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

.. |bigteachernote| image:: Figures/apple.jpg
    :width: 50px
    :align: top
    :alt: teacher note

.. 	qnum::
	:start: 1
	:prefix: csp-6-8-
	
.. highlight:: java
   :linenothreshold: 4


|bigteachernote| Teacher Note: Names for Formal and Actual Parameters
=============================================================================

A formal parameter is the name of the input value to a procedure, while
an actual parameter is the value itself that is passed to the procedure
when it is called. In the following example, ``name`` is the formal
parameter, while ``"John"`` is the actual parameter:

.. codelens:: ActualVsFormal1

    def greet(name):
        print("Good day, " + name + "!")
        
    greet("John")

Of course, instead of passing the literal string ``"John"``, we can
alternatively pass a variable name:

.. codelens:: ActualVsFormal2

    def greet(name):
        print("Good day, " + name + "!")

    person = "John"    
    greet(person)

In this case, ``name`` is the formal parameter, while ``person`` is the
actual parameter.

Depending on the examples of procedure definitions and calls the
students encounter, some may think that it is important to the computer
whether or not the names of the formal and actual parameters match.

**Correct understanding** In fact, it does not matter if the names do
not match, as we see in the example above. Making use of our
variables-as-boxes analogy, what is actually passed to the procedure is
a copy of the *value* contained in the box, not the **box** itself. For
both calls to ``greet`` above — ``greet("John")`` and ``greet(person)``
— the same *value* is passed: ``"John"``.

Run the above code in CodeLens to see that the value ``"John"`` is
copied to the variable ``name`` from the variable ``person`` .

Conversely, the following example demonstrates that you can also use the
same names for the formal and actual parameters:

.. codelens:: ActualVsFormal3

    def greet(name):
        print("Good day, " + name + "!")

    name = "John"    
    greet(name)

This example might seem a bit more confusing, since we use ``name``
twice. We understand, however, that the name of the actual parameter
does not matter, since it is a copy of the *value* that we are passing.
This code, then, will behave exactly as the previous two examples.

How do we make sense then of ``name`` being used twice? If you run this
example in CodeLens, you’ll see that what actually happens is that there
are two ``name`` variables. When ``greet`` is called, the value of
``name`` in the Global frame is copied into the variable ``name`` inside
the greet frame.

**How to tell if a student has this misconception** Show all three of
the above examples, and ask the students if any of them would produce an
error.